Add Path Smoothers Benchmarking suite (#3236)
ros-planning/navigation2: tools/smoother_benchmarking/README.md

# Planners Smoothing Benchmark

This experiment runs a set with randomly generated goals for objective benchmarking.

Bechmarking scripts require the following python packages to be installed:

```
pip install transforms3d
pip install seaborn
pip install tabulate
```

To perform the benchmarking, the following changes should be made for planner and smoother servers:

```
diff --git a/nav2_planner/src/planner_server.cpp b/nav2_planner/src/planner_server.cpp
index c7a90bcb..510bb6ea 100644
--- a/nav2_planner/src/planner_server.cpp
+++ b/nav2_planner/src/planner_server.cpp
@@ -285,7 +285,7 @@ bool PlannerServer::getStartPose(
   typename std::shared_ptr<const typename T::Goal> goal,
   geometry_msgs::msg::PoseStamped & start)
 {

> -  if (goal->use_start) {

Reviewer: I don't understand this diff, you can just set `use_start = True` in your `getPlan` request and it'll do this without modifying the source code

Author: Yep. Missed it. Set `use_start = True` for `getPath` [instead](https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/pull/3236/files#diff-65e8732e1465516bc6d72d450f91fb172336c4e37ece025895c3e197ef6432a6R36).

+  if (true) {
     start = goal->start;
   } else if (!costmap_ros_->getRobotPose(start)) {
     return false;
@@ -381,7 +381,10 @@ void PlannerServer::computePlanThroughPoses()
       }
 
       // Get plan from start -> goal
+      auto planning_start = steady_clock_.now();
       nav_msgs::msg::Path curr_path = getPlan(curr_start, curr_goal, goal->planner_id);
+      auto planning_duration = steady_clock_.now() - planning_start;

> +      result->planning_time = planning_duration;

Reviewer: Why move this?

Author: Initially, the time measured for planner and smoother actions - is a whole period of time required for the selected action. This time includes a lot of of supplementary cycles, like TF to global frame or waiting for costmaps. During the benchmarking, we need to know exact time of `getPlan()` for the selected path planner and `smooth()` routine for smoothers case. That is why for the most accurate results, start and end time measurements should be moved right before and after measured routines, to exclude all unnecessary wrapping/transformation/converting/preparation/etc. stuff

 
       if (!validatePath<ActionThroughPoses>(curr_goal, curr_path, goal->planner_id)) {
         throw nav2_core::NoValidPathCouldBeFound(goal->planner_id + "generated a empty path");
@@ -398,7 +401,7 @@ void PlannerServer::computePlanThroughPoses()
     publishPlan(result->path);
 
     auto cycle_duration = steady_clock_.now() - start_time;
-    result->planning_time = cycle_duration;
+    // result->planning_time = cycle_duration;
 
     if (max_planner_duration_ && cycle_duration.seconds() > max_planner_duration_) {
       RCLCPP_WARN(
diff --git a/nav2_smoother/src/nav2_smoother.cpp b/nav2_smoother/src/nav2_smoother.cpp
index ada1f664..610e9512 100644
--- a/nav2_smoother/src/nav2_smoother.cpp
+++ b/nav2_smoother/src/nav2_smoother.cpp
@@ -253,8 +253,6 @@ bool SmootherServer::findSmootherId(
 
 void SmootherServer::smoothPlan()
 {

> -  auto start_time = steady_clock_.now();

Reviewer: Why move this?

Author: This was moved for the same [reasons](https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/pull/3236#discussion_r992016301).

```
planner_server:
  ros__parameters:
    expected_planner_frequency: 20.0
    planner_plugins: ["SmacHybrid"]
    SmacHybrid:
      plugin: "nav2_smac_planner/SmacPlannerHybrid"
      tolerance: 0.5
      motion_model_for_search: "DUBIN" # default, non-reverse motion
      smooth_path: false # should be disabled for experiment
      analytic_expansion_max_length: 0.3 # decreased to avoid robot jerking
```

... and path smoothers for benchmark:

```
 smoother_server:
   ros__parameters:
    smoother_plugins: ["simple_smoother", "constrained_smoother"]
    simple_smoother:
      plugin: "nav2_smoother::SimpleSmoother"
      holonomic: False # should be disabled to utilize motion/rotation model
    constrained_smoother:
      plugin: "nav2_constrained_smoother/ConstrainedSmoother"
      w_smooth: 100000.0 # tuned
```

Then enable SmoothPath sequence for selected path planner, as shown for default `navigate_to_pose_w_replanning_and_recovery.xml` behavior tree:

```
       <PipelineSequence name="NavigateWithReplanning">
         <RateController hz="1.0">
           <RecoveryNode number_of_retries="1" name="ComputePathToPose">

> -            <ComputePathToPose goal="{goal}" path="{path}" planner_id="GridBased"/>

Reviewer: Why modify the BT? You're just calling the task servers to get the path / smoothing results in the data collection script

Author: Indeed, this is only required when we are using standard operation flow. When calling actions from palth planner / smoother servers, we do not need it at all. Removed from README.

# Planners Smoothing Benchmark

This experiment runs a set with randomly generated goals for objective benchmarking.

Bechmarking scripts require the following python packages to be installed:

```
pip install transforms3d
pip install seaborn
pip install tabulate
```

> For the benchmarking purposes, the clarification of execution time should be made for planner and smoother servers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the benchmarking purposes, the clarification of execution time may be made for planner and smoother servers, to reduce impacts caused by other system actions outside of the planning / smoothing algorithm (optional):
```

> For the benchmarking purposes, the clarification of execution time should be made for planner and smoother servers:

Reviewer: Move this stuff to be last, after the config file modifications

Author: Done in https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/pull/3236/commits/5b8c3a23baf9fa68b7ff38c18dbaf5b07fac8bab

```
planner_server:
  ros__parameters:
    expected_planner_frequency: 20.0
    planner_plugins: ["SmacHybrid"]
    SmacHybrid:
      plugin: "nav2_smac_planner/SmacPlannerHybrid"
      tolerance: 0.5
      motion_model_for_search: "DUBIN" # default, non-reverse motion
      smooth_path: false # should be disabled for experiment
      analytic_expansion_max_length: 0.3 # decreased to avoid robot jerking
```

... and path smoothers for benchmark:

```
 smoother_server:
   ros__parameters:
    smoother_plugins: ["simple_smoother", "constrained_smoother"]
    simple_smoother:
      plugin: "nav2_smoother::SimpleSmoother"

>       holonomic: False # should be disabled to utilize motion/rotation model

Reviewer: Should this be here if we didn't add the Smac stuff here?

Author: Yes, thanks for noting this. Removed in latest commit.
